# Peter Parking
*A `C#` program in partial fulfillment of the course requirements in Fundamentals of Programming.*

Git Repository: [git@github.com:mrwnmncd/peter-parking.git](https:/github.com/mrwnmncd/peter-parking)

## Overview
A vehicle parking console program for monitoring and recording parking records. It can accommodate virtually up to more than 2000+ parking slots and assign a vehicle records in each of them. The parking records are non volatile as it is saved in a text file generated by a program. 

## Technologies Used
The program is created with `C#` in **.NET 8.0**. With zero dependencies on third-party libraries.

# Installation
There is no need to intsall the program. Peter Parking is purely console-based. Simply download an executable or build or compile and run it right away. There are two ways Peter Parking can be ran: *(a)* through direct distribution or *(b)* by building it from the source.

### Download a Distribution
Peter Parking is compiled after tested before the source code is consolidated and released. These releases comes with the compiled program that can be directly executed and ran. For now, we test our codes with Macintosh and Windows machines but we are currently making a CI/CD. Download a copy compatible to your computer in [**GitHub Releases**](https://github.com/mrwnmncd/peter-parking/releases). 

### Build and Compile from Source
Peter Parking is built with .NET SDK. With zero dependency, the only prerequisite is to download the latest .NET to build or compile it. The project targets .NET 8.0. See [**COMPILING**](https://github.com/mrwnmncd/peter-parking/blob/master/COMPILING.md).

### Usage
After downloading the executables, simply run it and you will be prompted with a terminal.

> The application is not verified and signed. You may need to configure your antivirus to whitelist the app before you can run it.

# Documentation
This program is an integrated program. Classes are designed to interact directly with the console as its UI and not as an API. The documentation will only explain the methods and their fundamental functions but are not intended for use as a library or module for other programs.

Documentation is still under work. Please bear with us.

# Support
If you encounter a common problem, see TROUBLESHOOTING for some remedies. If the runtime throws an error or you notice a bug, create an issue on GitHub and describe the error.

A comprehensive troubleshooting guide in the documentation will be made available soon.

# Contributing to the Application
Fixes for bugs, refactoring for efficiency, or simple reporting of poor performance such as errors are truly appreciated for the betterment of the program. See [**CONTRIBUTING**](https://github.com/mrwnmncd/peter-parking/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

#### Creating Issues and Reporting a Bug
When reporting an issue, please make sure to describe the error comprehensively. 
- Make a concise and descriptive title, highlighting the essence of the bug
- Explain the observed behavior and its impact. 
- If possible, state what you are expecting to happen and what actually happened.
- State what you did. Enumerate the exact steps needed to consistently reproduce the bug.
- Specify the operating system, program version, software version, and any relevant hardware details.
- If you have additional information, you may also include them such as any workarounds or related bug reports you've found. You may also include screenshots, screen recordings to illustrate the issue.

### Contributors
- [@mrwnmncd](https://github.com/mrwnmncd)
- [@onlyKopi](https://github.com/onlyKopi)
- [@AeXiao](https://github.com/AeXiao)
- [@DrewJemari](https://github.com/DrewJemari)